*dash.txt*                         Search Dash.app from Neovim with Telescope.

==============================================================================
Table of Contents                                     *dash-table-of-contents*

1. Dash.nvim                                                  |dash-dash.nvim|
  - Install                                                     |dash-install|
  - Usage                                                         |dash-usage|
  - Configuration                                         |dash-configuration|
  - Backend                                                     |dash-backend|
  - Contributing                                           |dash-contributing|

==============================================================================
1. Dash.nvim                                                  *dash-dash.nvim*

Query Dash.app <https://kapeli.com/dash> within Neovim with a Telescope picker!

Note: Dash is a Mac-only app, so you’ll only find this plugin useful on Mac.

INSTALL                                                         *dash-install*

After installing Dash.nvim, you must run `make install`. This can be done
through a post-install hook with most plugin managers.

Packer:

>
    use({
      'mrjones2014/dash.nvim',
      requires = { 'nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim' },
      run = 'make install',
      disable = not vim.fn.has('macunix'),
    })
<


Paq:

>
    require("paq")({
      'nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim';
      {'mrjones2014/dash.nvim', run = 'make install'}
    })
<


Vim-Plug:

>
    Plug 'nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim'
    Plug 'mrjones2014/dash.nvim', { 'do': 'make install' }
<


USAGE                                                             *dash-usage*

EDITOR COMMANDS ~

This plugin has two editor commands, `:Dash` and `:DashWord`, each of which
accept a bang (`!`). By default, it will search Dash.app with keywords based on
config (see `file_type_keywords` in |dash-configuration|). The bang (`!`) will
search without this keyword filtering.

`:Dash [query]` will open the Telescope picker, and if `[query]` is passed, it
will pre-fill the prompt with `[query]`.

`:DashWord` will open the Telescope picker and pre-fill the prompt with the
word under the cursor.

CONFIGURATION                                             *dash-configuration*

`dash.nvim` can be configured in your Telescope config. Options and defaults
are described below:

>
    require('telescope').setup({
      extensions = {
        dash = {
          -- configure path to Dash.app if installed somewhere other than /Applications/Dash.app
          dash_app_path = '/Applications/Dash.app',
          -- debounce while typing, in milliseconds
          debounce = 0,
          -- map filetype strings to the keywords you've configured for docsets in Dash
          -- setting to false will disable filtering by filetype for that filetype
          -- filetypes not included in this table will not filter the query by filetype
          -- check lua/dash.config.lua to see all defaults
          -- the values you pass for file_type_keywords are merged with the defaults
          -- to disable filtering for all filetypes,
          -- set file_type_keywords = false
          file_type_keywords = {
            dashboard = false,
            NvimTree = false,
            TelescopePrompt = false,
            terminal = false,
            packer = false,
            -- a table of strings will search on multiple keywords
            javascript = { 'javascript', 'nodejs' },
            typescript = { 'typescript', 'javascript', 'nodejs' },
            typescriptreact = { 'typescript', 'javascript', 'react' },
            javascriptreact = { 'javascript', 'react' },
            -- you can also do a string, for example,
            -- bash = 'sh'
          },
        }
      }
    })
<


If you notice an issue with the default `file_type_keywords` or would like a
new filetype added, please file an issue or submit a PR!

LUA API ~

The public API consists of two main functions.

>
    -- See lua/dash.config.lua for full DashConfig type definition
    -- Also described in configuration section below
    ---@param config DashConfig
    require('dash').setup(config)
<


>
    ---@param bang boolean @bang searches without any filtering
    ---@param initial_text string @pre-fill text into the telescope picker
    require('dash').search(bang, initial_text)
<


See |dash-backend| for documentation on the backend data provider.

BACKEND                                                         *dash-backend*

The binaries for the Rust backend can be found under `bin/`, compiled for Mac
M1 and Intel architectures. To build from source, you will need a Rust
toolchain, which can be installed from rustup.rs <https://rustup.rs>. Once this
is installed, you should be able to build via `make build`. Then, `make
install` will copy the correct binary into the `lua/` directory so that it is
added to Lua’s runtimepath.

The Rust backend is exposed as a Lua module. To `require` the module, you will
need to have the file `libdash_nvim.so` for your architecture (M1 or Intel) on
your runtimepath, as well as the `deps` directory, which must be in the same
directory as the `libdash_nvim.so` shared library file.

The Lua module exports one method, `query`, that takes a list of strings. The
first item must be the path to the Dash.app CLI,
e.g. `/Applications/Dash.app/Contents/Resources/dashAlfredWorkflow`. It also
exports some string constants you can use to build the CLI path. See example
below:

>
    local libdash = require('libdash_nvim')
    local results = libdash.query({
      libdash.DASH_APP_BASE_PATH .. libdash.DASH_APP_CLI_PATH,
      'javascript:array.prototype.filter',
      'typescript:array.prototype.filter',
    })
<


The `query` method returns a table with the following properties:


- `value` – the number value of the item, to be used when selected. Running a query, then opening the URL `dash-workflow-callback://[value]` will open the selected item in Dash.app
- `ordinal` – a value to sort by, currently this is the same value as `display`
- `display` – a display value
- `keyword` – the keyword (if there was one) on the query that returned this result
- `query` – the full query that returned this result


**Note:** if running multiple queries, simply opening
`dash-workflow-callback://[value]` may not work directly. Opening the URL
assumes that the value being opened was returned by the currently active query
in Dash.app. You can work around this by just running the CLI again with only
the `query` value from the selected item, then opening
`dash-workflow-callback://[value]`.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTRIBUTING                                               *dash-contributing*

GIT HOOKS ~

If you plan on changing Rust code, you will need to install the git hooks via
`make install-hooks`. The git hooks require you have a Rust toolchain
installed. You can install a Rust toolchain from rustup.rs <https://rustup.rs>.

RUNNING TESTS ~

This uses busted <https://github.com/Olivine-Labs/busted>, luassert
<https://github.com/Olivine-Labs/luassert> (both through plenary.nvim
<https://github.com/nvim-lua/plenary.nvim>) and matcher_combinators
<https://github.com/m00qek/matcher_combinators.lua> to define tests in `spec/`
directory. These dependencies are required only to run tests, that’s why they
are installed as git submodules.

To run tests, run `make test`. This runs tests in Neovim with a minimal
profile, spec.vim <./spec/spec.vim>. This runs Neovim with only this plugin,
and the testing dependencies.

If you have entr(1) <https://eradman.com/entrproject/> installed, you can run
the tests in watch mode using `make watch`.

CODE STYLE ~

Use `snake_case` for everything. Ensure you use EmmyLua Annotations
<https://github.com/sumneko/lua-language-server/wiki/EmmyLua%2DAnnotations> for
any public-facing API, and optionally for non-public functions, if the function
is non-trivial or the types are not obvious. Other than that, running
`luacheck` and `stylua` should cover it.

Generated by panvimdoc <https://github.com/kdheepak/panvimdoc>

vim:tw=78:ts=8:noet:ft=help:norl:
